Backend define where Terraform's state snapshots are stored.
Can specify a backend, integrate with Terraform Cloud, or do neither and default to storing state locally.

- [Backend Configuration](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/v1.1.x/settings/backends/configuration) documents the form of a `backend` block, which selects and configures a backend for a Terraform configuration.
- This section also includes a page for each of Terraform's built-in backends, documenting its behavior and available settings. See the navigation sidebar for a complete list.

## What Backend Do
Backend primarily determine where Terraform stores its state. Terraform uses this persisted state data to keep track of the resources it manages. Since it needs the state in order to know which real-world infrastructure objects correspond to the resources in a configuration, everyone working with a given collection of infrastructure resources must be able to access the same state data. 
## local backend
The local backend store state on the local filesystem, locks that state using system APIs, and performs operations locally.

### Example Configuration
```hcl
terraform {
	backend "local" {
		path = "/some/path/terraform.tfstate"	
	}
}
```

### Data source configuration
```hcl
data "terraform_remote_state" "foo" {
  backend = "local"

  config = {
    path = "${path.module}/../../terraform.tfstate"
  }
}
```

### Configuration variables
- `path` - (optional) The path to the `tfstate` file.
- `workspace_dir` - (optional) The path to non-default workspaces

### Command Line Arguments
- `-state=FILENAME` - overriders the state filename when reading the prior state snapshot
- `state-out=FILENAME` - overrides the state filename when writing new state
- `-backup=FILENAME` - overrides the default filename that the local backend would normally choose.
