State is a necessary requirement for Terraform to function.
## Mapping to the Real World
- Terraform requires a map to config to the real world, like `resource "aws_instance" "foo"` in configuration, terraform use this map to know that instance xyz is represented by the resource.
- Terraform expects that each remote object is bound to only one resource instance, that is guaranteed by Terraform being responsible for the creation of the object and recording the identities in the state
- If one remote object is bound to two or more resources instances then Terraform may unexpected actions against those objects.

## Metadata
- Terraform must track metadata such as resource dependencies.
- Terraform typically uses the configuration to determine dependency order. However, when you delete a resource from a Terraform configuration, Terraform must know how to delete that resource from the remote system. Terraform can see that a mapping exists in the state file for a resource not in your configuration and plan to destroy. However, since the configuration no longer exists, the order cannot be determined from the configuration alone.
- To ensure correct operation, Terraform retains a copy of the most recent set of dependencies within the state.

## Performance
- Terraform stores a cache of the attribute values for all resources in the state. (done only for performance)
- The default behavior of Terraform is for every plan and apply it will sync all resources in your state
- For large infrastructures querying every resource is too slow, larger users of Terraform make heavy use of the `refresh=false` flag as well as the`target` flag in order to work around this. In these scenarios, the cached state is treated as the record of truth.

## Syncing
- In the default configuration, Terraform stores the state file in the current working directory.
- [Remote state](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/v1.8.x/state/remote) is the recommended solution to this problem. With a fully-featured state backend, Terraform can use remote locking as a measure to avoid two or more different users accidentally running Terraform at the same time, and thus ensure that each Terraform run begins with the most recent updated state.

ref: https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/v1.1.x/state/purpose