## Complex Types
A complex types is a type that groups multiples values into a single value.
There are **two** categories of complex types: **collection types** (for grouping similar values), and structural types (for grouping potentially dissimilar values).

### Collection Types
A colleciton type allow multiples values of one other type to be grouped together as a single value.
The three kinds of collection type in Terraform are:
- `list(...)`: a sequence of values identified by consecutive whole numbers starting with zero.
- `map(...)`: a collection of values where each is identified by a string label.
- `set(...)`: a collection of unique values that do not have any secondary identifiers or ordering. 
### Structural Types
A structural type allows multiple values of several distinct types to be grouped together as a single value. Structural types require a schema as an argument, to specify which types are allowed.
- `object(...)`: a collection of named attributes that each have their own type. The schema for object types is `{ <KEY> = <TYPE>, <KEY> = <TYPE>, ... }`
- `tuple(...)`: a sequence of elements identified by consecutive whole numbers starting with zero, where each element has its own type. The schema for tuple types is `[<TYPE>, <TYPE>, ...]`

### Conversion of Complex Types
Similar kinds of complex types can usually be used interchangeably within the Terraform language, and most of Terraform's documentation glosses over the differences between the kinds  of complex type.

- Whenever possible, Terraform **converts** values between similar kinds

For example: if a module argument requires a value of type `list(string)` and a user provides the tuple `["a", 15, true]`, Terraform will internally transform the value to `["a", "15", "true"]` by converting the elements to the required `string` element type. Later, if the module uses those elements to set different resource arguments that require a string, a number, and a bool (respectively), Terraform will automatically convert the second and third strings back to the required types at that time, since they contain valid representations of a number and a bool.

On the other hand, automatic conversion will fail if the provided value (including any of its element values) is incompatible with the required type. If an argument requires a type of `map(string)` and a user provides the object `{name = ["Kristy", "Claudia", "Mary Anne", "Stacey"], age = 12}`, Terraform will raise a type mismatch error, since a tuple cannot be converted to a string